Computer networks is just computers that are connected together.

Client Server architecture:
    Client sends a request to the server and the server response back with some information.

Internet Protocols:
    This is a set of rules and regulations created by an organization called the internet society.

    Transmission Control Protocol(TCP):
        This ensures that the data will reach its destination and would not be corrupted on the way.
        i.e sending a text over on the internet.

    The User Datagram Protocol (UDP):
        This does not mind if the data the entire data do not reach the destination.
        i.e video call

    Hyper Text Transfer Protocol:
        This guides how data is transfer on web browsers.
        i.e searching google.com



How is data is transferred:
    Data is transfered  in chunks of called packets. The address of each computer is known by the ip address.

    curl ifconfig.me -s # this how to check the ip address of your computer
    NAT(Network Access Translator) address is used to recognise the device that make the request.
    Ports are used to identify the application that requested the data.
    0-1023 are reserved ports
    1024-49152 application ports
    The rest is for public
    The speed of transfer of data is measure in bits per second


Optical Fibre Cables:
    The world is connected by optical fibre cables that are under the ocean.


How Area are connected.

LAN(Local Area Network):
    This is a small area where all the computers are connected. i.e office


A metropolitan area network (MAN):
    This is a computer network that connects computers within a metropolitan area,
    which could be a single large city, multiple cities and towns, or any given large area with multiple buildings.
    A MAN is larger than a local area network (LAN) but smaller than a wide area network (WAN).

A wide area network (also known as WAN):
    This is a large network of information that is not tied to a single location. WANs can facilitate communication,
    the sharing of information and much more between devices from around the world through a WAN provider.




MODEM and Router:
    Modem:
        This is used to convert analog(electrical) signals into digital and vice versa

    Router:
        Router assigns local ip to very devices in the network.



Topology:
    Bus Topology:
                c
                ||
       a--  ======================= --b
                    ||
                    d

    Ring Topology:

                    c
                    ||
                  d == O == a
                    ||
                    b

    Star Topology:

                    c
                    ||
                central node ===a
                ||
                b

    Tree Topology:
        This is a combination of bus and star.


    Mesh Topology:
        This means all of them are connected to each other.


OSI Model:
    Open System Interconnection Model is the standard how two computers should communicate which each other.

    It is conceptual way.

    Application Layer
    Presentation Layer
    Session Layer
    Transport Layer
    Network Layer
    Data-Link Layer
    Physical Layer

    Adesina Please Send Tayo Nice Dog Pictures


TCP/IP:
    This is used in practice

    Application Layer
    Transport Layer
    Network Layer
    Data-Link Layer
    Physical Layer


    APS = A


Application Layer:
    These are the software the user interacts with on the device. Example is browsers, whatsapp.
    This layer has some protocols:
        HTTP: This defines how data is transferred on web browsers. It is a stateless protocol
            GET: To get a data from server
            POST: To send data to server
            PUT: To put data at a specific location
            DELETE: To remove data from the data

            STATUS CODES
            200 : Successful request
            300: Redirect
            404: Not found/client error
            500 : Server error

            Cookies: This a unique string that is stored on the client browser, because http is a stateless protocol that
                        do not remember the state, it can use cookie to remember it next time the browser request from  the server.

        DHCP: This defines how ip address is allocated to the devices
        FTP: How files are transfered
        SMTP: This is you to send emails.
              Sender --- Sender_Server ===== Receiver_Server --- Receiver


        Pop3: This is use to receive emails
              This is the protocol to download the email.
        SSH: This is use to login remotely into a computer
        VNC: This is use for graphical control
        UDP: Video call

    Program: This is an application that runs some processes.
              Whatsapp is a program, a process is recording a video in whatsapp

    Thread: A process can have multiple thread.

    Sockets: It is the interface between process and the internet

    IP Address: This identify the device making the request

    Ports: Ports tells you the application in that makes the request.
           Ephemeral ports are ports that are use for a short time in the application.
           i.e the tabs in google chrome has temporary ports too

    Domain Name System(DNS):
        Domain name system is what is used to find the ip address of the server.

        Root DNS: This is the first point contact and are top level domains .io, .org .com

       What is attached to the root DNS is called second level domain i.e school.com school is second level and .com is the root


    How client find server:
        It will first check the cache to see if it has its DNS stored, if not it will find it on local DNS server i.e ISP server
        then if it is not seen it finds it on root server



Presentation Layer:
    The presentation layer is also called the Translation layer. The data from the application layer is extracted here
    and manipulated as per the required format to transmit over the network.

    The functions of the presentation layer are :

    Translation: For example, ASCII to EBCDIC.
    Encryption/ Decryption: Data encryption translates the data into another form or code.
    The encrypted data is known as the ciphertext and the decrypted data is known as plain text.
    A key value is used for encrypting as well as decrypting data.
    Compression: Reduces the number of bits that need to be transmitted on the network.




Session Layer:
    This layer is responsible for the establishment of connection, maintenance of sessions, authentication, and also ensures security.
    The functions of the session layer are :

    Session establishment, maintenance, and termination: The layer allows the two processes to establish, use and terminate a connection.
    Synchronization: This layer allows a process to add checkpoints which are considered synchronization points into the data.
    These synchronization points help to identify the error so that the data is re-synchronized properly, and ends of the
    messages are not cut prematurely and data loss is avoided.
    Dialog Controller: The session layer allows two systems to start communication with each other in half-duplex or full-duplex.


Transport Layer:
    The transport layer provides services to the application layer and takes services from the network layer.
    The data in the transport layer is referred to as Segments. It is responsible for the End to End Delivery of the complete message.
    The transport layer also provides the acknowledgement of the successful data transmission and re-transmits the data if an error is found.
    It also adds Source and Destination port numbers in its header and forwards the segmented data to the Network Layer.
    Congestion Control is done here.
    They add check sum to the segemented data to ensure the value is the same at both ends.
    Timer is set to know how long the trip took. When timer expires you will know the data was not set


    It has it own protocols

    User Datagram Protocol (UDP):
        Data may or may not be delivered, data may be altered or not in order.
        This is use for Video Conference apps, gaming
        Connectionless




    Transmission Control Protocol (TCP):
        Divides the data into segment.
        Rearranges and maintain the order of data using sequence number
        It makes sure the whole data is received and data is not lost
        Connection must be established throughout.



Network Layer:
    The data is turned into packets, and the router lives here.
    So many routers have their own ip address.
    It use the best distance to forward your message using hop to hop.
    This hops happens on ISP routers




    Protocols in the network layer:
        Internet Protocol(IP):
            IPV4: 32 bits
            IPV6: 128bits

            SUBNETID.HOSTID

            SUBNET is what it will use to hop around

            ClassA to ClassE

                ClassA: 0.0.0.0 to 127.255.255.255
                ClassB: 128.0.0.0 to 191.255.255.255
                ClassC: 192.0.0.0 to 223.255.255.255
                ClassD: 224.0.0.0 to 239.255.255.255
                ClassE: 240.0.0.0 to 255.255.255.255




























