When a docker engine fails, all the containers in it fails. There is where kubernetes comes in, it allows you to run
multiple docker engine.

Master node(like a master docker engine) orchestrate other nodes, if the node fails and its containers are healthy, it
moves the containers into another node, if the container in the node fails, it will give it healthy containers.

Master Node:
    Kube API Server:
        Handles all the requests and enables communication across stack services.
        Component on the master node that exposes the Kubernetes API
        It is the front-end for the kubernetes control plane.
        Admins connect to it using Kubectl CLI


    ETCD Server:
        Stores all the information of everything in the cluster


    Kube Scheduler:
        Watches newly created pods that have no node assigned and selects a node for them to run on.

    Controller Manager:
        It controls the worker nodes

Worker Node:
    Kubelet:
        An agent that runs worker node and listens from the master node.


    Kube Proxy:
        It allows you to set security rules

    Container Runtime:
        It supports the container runtime, like docker


Pods:
      Pods provides all the needed resources for the container to run

      Best Practice:
        It is good to have one main container and another container to help

Overlay Network:
    All the pods in the node communicates with themselves using bridge0

    If it wants to communicate to a pod in another node, bridge0 will forward it to wg0 this will
    send it to the appropriate wg0 of the node and send it to bridge0 of the receiving node.


To install kubernetes, use docker desktop and enable kubernetes. It works!


Minikube:
    minikube # shows you all the arguments you can use with it

    minikube start # starts it and creates one container in docker engine

    kubectl get nodes # this will show you the node that was created from minikube

    # Run a test container image that includes a webserver
        kubectl create deployment hello-node --image=registry.k8s.io/e2e-test-images/agnhost:2.39 -- /agnhost netexec --http-port=8080

    kubectl get deploy/deployments # to see the deployments

    kubectl get pods # you see all the pods in the node

    kubectl get events # see the events in the cluster

    kubectl config view # to see the configuration

    kubectl expose deployment hello-node --type=LoadBalancer --port=8080 # expose pod to internet access

    kubectl get services # view the service you created

    minikube service hello-node # to show you on browser

    kubectl delete service hello-node
    kubectl delete deployment hello-node
    minikube stop
    minikube delete




